In this video we're talking about the shape of the hair strand.
Not something that we need to mess around with a lot but just wanted you to know that we've been looking
at these hair strands look very thin and consistent.
But in reality when we render them they look different.
So I to switch over from the Eevee engine to the cycles rendering engine when I do that you can see
this is what we're actually working with each strand of hair has a root at right at the base of it and
then a tip.
And it goes from one width until another width.
So if we expand if we jump into our particle properties scroll on down and let's find our hair shape
opening that up you can see we have diameter root and we have tip.
If I change the tip to one you can see that we have now more of a solid pencil looking approach and
we have the point at the end.
If I unclip close tip then you can see it's hard to see on my screen here but you can see that it's
a flat and we don't have that kind of pencil tip at the end of it.
If I click it back home we do.
So you can play around with the numbers you can play around with the diameter root and that will make
the base fatter.
You can play around with the tip that will make the tip fatter or wider.
And this is really good to know why am I telling you this so it's good to know if you want to create
a different look for different sort of character maybe it's hair like here I've made the diameter Route
10.
You might want to be out to see it has probably a little bit too big.
Make the tip huge as well.
Five.
It's something that when you zoom out you'll be out to see the hair a lot differently.
So it's good if you make a video game character that doesn't need to be super realistic just going to
turn the number of children down a little bit so we can see see 10 might try to.
There we go.
So you might be creating a different sort of character an ogre or a or a human.
That's for a video game where you want to be out to see these just solid chunks of hair strands is a
lot more of a stylized look.
For me it makes me look a little bit like an alien in here but it's really useful for us to play around
with this to illustrate the point.
So now is a good time.
If you're not following me as I go now is a good time just play around with your model.
Remember you need to be in cycles rendering which is making my computer not have a good time at all
it's really starting to chug.
And of course you can get as I'm doing here you can get some pretty extreme looks if you want to just
play around with things and see how they how they look.
Turn the number of children down or the number children up change the diamond route change a shape so
that tip.
So if you haven't done so already just pause a video and have a little bit of a play with that okay
I'm gonna just return things back to normal a little bit because we're at the stage now where I want
to move on from playing around with the strands of hair and actually style the hair so it looks half
decent so it's going to turn the children display and rendering amount back to 30.
Oh and before we move on add a camera back into our scene if you're crazy like me and you deleted it
shift a and then find Camera click to add I'm going to hop into material view so I can still see with
my camera but my computer's not handling screen recording and blender and all the other things going
on at the same time so I've just hopped into material view now while I've got the view lined up that
I want I'm gonna hit control old and the zero on the number pad that will line the camera up with where
the view currently is and then hit it on my keyboard to open up our side panel I'm going to look for
the view tab and in here look camera to view that means as I scroll around move around the camera then
we can get a good view.
It's getting nice and close.
The important thing here is just to be out to see the hair so you can render it and see oh how's my
hand looking at the moment.
We don't need to see the rest of the head just for the moment.
So uncheck hit end to close that up again.
Oh and of course before we progressed let's go into the render and particle properties turn off the
show emitter in our render area so that we can hit F twelve and know that we will only get the hair
and not the emitter as well.
Okay.
That's looking fine I can see what I want to see.
It's not perfect but we need to style our hair first before we decide.
I think what the final hair strand looks like.
So I'm just gonna leave it fairly default for now and I think it's time for us actually style our hair
so it looks the shape that we want it to look so.
Time for challenge.
So Graham your hair.
Take a limited time now.
We've done this a few times so I'm not going to go through it step by step.
I'll just show you my final result but I want you to get the size the shape the direction the thickness
of the hair to the point you are happy with it using the particle edit tools and then after that we
will work on adding some colour randomness so to give you a lot of flexibility in terms of how you would
like to colour the hair on your models so pose a video take that on.
I'll see you back here when you done so if you're interested.
I have a speed run through of what I'm doing I'm just reducing the length using shrink so you can either
have clicked on grow and hold down shift or you can click on shrink which is up in the top middle of
our menu.
One other thing that we haven't talked about before is I can click on a button interpolate so you see
right about now I clicked on interpolate.
That's while we're in the ad mode that allows you to add headers that have the same direction and shape
and size as the heads around it pretty handy to use going to grow a little bit more on the top here.
I wish I could do that that easily.
I'm just using the comb changing the pivot.
So a change in the point that I'm manipulating starting off with the tip to get it in the right direction
and then using some other settings up there in terms of whether it's the entire path or the entire vertices.
Okay now just playing around with some different types of look to it.
None of those really do what I wanted to.
Let's have a look in random mode to see how the fatness or the thickness of the hair is looking I think
for mine it needs to be a little bit thinner again mirroring real life a little bit here.
Having my hair a little bit the strands not quite so thick and then just a little bit more styling left
and right pushing it around around the back here.
Looks like they're a little bit too short.
You can see the skin showing through so just playing around with the growing and shrinking properties
and also a little bit of puff just have it sit away from the head a little bit if you want these strains
to stand to attention and you can use the puff tool looking around looking around making sure it looks
the way I want it to look and a little bit more at the front.
I think just growing moving and you can see as I move them they've got a little bit of a bend a bit
of a kink to it's something that we'll talk about.
I think we'll talk about this in the next video is it we can have a little bit more detail to the strands
to have them had the shape a little bit smoother at this point I didn't like there are a couple of strands
sticking out of the front so I was just looking to see what I could do could I move some vertices around
to have that a cleaner edge could I do some white painting to have it look a little bit nicer at the
front there and in the end I decided just to tighten it up with the White painting so that we had more
of a straight line to get rid of some of those random hairs that were kind of flying around so you can
either move your vertices on the mesh itself on the object or you can do the white painting you can
reduce the number of children so a lot of levers to pull on here but for me I'm pretty happy that I
got a nice consistent hairline at the front.
Okay I'm really ready to do something with the color of his hair so that's what we'll be doing in the
next video and so let's jump into the next lecture and work on the hair color.